Now, I wanna get to another exercise.
It's based on the resume, but it's
exercises only based on the experience.
I want everyone to try to come up with
one bullet of why I want their job.
I want the description of the job.
I want the tools you use in a job and
I want the impact of what
you did with the job.
So job, what you did,
how you did it with the tools, or impact.
Or if you didn't have a job,
job, what you did and how, and
then try to pull the soft
skills out of it.
Give you ten minutes to try to pull
either with a job that you've had before
that isn't technical, pull the soft skills
out of it, so we give feedback for that.
Or a job that you had, or
internship, volunteer work.
Pick your poison and we'll work with it.
So that way we'll get that experience up,
so you guys can talk about it.
Let me start working on this right now,
let's see what you guys have.
Tanae, all right, so you said you
developed a scalable website for
a content creation agency using
web technologies like CSS.
So you either used the technologies or
like technology.
So we're gonna say is I used
the web technology CSS,
Flexbox, PHP, and SaaS hosted.
So we're gonna say from that,
using web technologies, using PHP and AWS.
The website is optimized for SEO,
which helped the agency to get
more clients around the globe.
So that's your business impact.
So what we're gonna say is I
developed a scalable website for
a content creation agency.
Technologies I used, using LAMP stack
with AWS, I was able to optimize
the website for SEO, which helped
the agency get more clientele.
All right, Alan.
Alan is Millie North America
materials manager 2017, 2018.
When I started,
the shipments were difficult to locate and
manual inventory accounts were
made up of seven hours a week.
I developed an application were HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript
to show the layout of the warehouse and
details of all the shipments.
It was accessible from any device and
updated in real time.
This reduced the time needed to do
manual inventory counts just two,
three hours per month.
Yo, that is spot on.
That is what I'm talking
about right there.
You've showcased what you did.
You showcase that, guess what,
even though this was a job that
didn't really need it anything to do,
I still developed something that was able
to handle, like do the work for it, right?
And you showed the time saved, because
a company's business time is money, right?
And you did that, that's perfect.
Alan, if you're hearing this,
good job, that was great.
Air a round of applause for that guy.
All right, Ronald,
software engineer intern, Near app.
Lead a team of four engineers and on
a front end and collaborated with back end
teams directly in application lifecycle
process for a ride sharing app on iOS and
Android with a focus on designing,
coding, and debugging.
Okay, so you're missing your impact on it,
what did you learn?
Cuz if you're doing this as an intern,
so you could either as an intern,
you'd have to focus on what did you
learn or what was the impact for you,
was it like leadership skills,
collaborative skills?
What was that?
I'm not really seeing that.
So I think that's the only place
that needs to be improved is that
we need to have the impact.
How did it impact you?
How did it impact the company?
So you guys were working on another Uber,
so that was cool.
Even though, they stay in trouble.
All right, Zoe.
So we got business developer manager
investment bank incorporated NDA.
So I was a business development
manager for an investment bank.
So where I taught my customers
to use our automated
underwriting system to
approve residential loans.
I use my technical skills
to teach my customers and
at the same time use soft skills to build,
expand, and maintain my customer base.
So if you say you're
growing your customer base,
we already know if you're
expanding your customer base,
we already know this maintain we
don't have to say maintaining because
it's getting bigger, you have more people,
so you have to do that.
So you build and
expanding your customer base, right?
Done, right?
Use your technical skills
to teach your customers
how to use this automated
underwriting system.
You have to say, was it remotely or
was it you walk them through it hand hand?
Or you had to be able to showcase that?
That way it shows like I think
what you're trying to convey there
is that you had the aptitude and
the communication skills to teach
someone something that was difficult.
That's what you're trying to convey there.
And which I love, is just this
needs a little bit of tweaking.
So that's what needs to be there.
Chad, yay.
My goodness, Chad.
Okay, stem hero, Minneapolis, Minnesota
2019 to present, full stack developer.
Owner of freelance developer for
independent software development company
providing full stack development
services for small businesses and
nonprofits in the Twin Cities area.
Okay, so
you research developing tools to improve
web applications that are accurate tools.
Apply strong knowledge,
JavaScript, HTML and frameworks,
like Node.js to develop solutions.
Collaborate with technical or client
technical teams to support the development
of products through the SDLC
that's a acronym, like remember.
I'm not gonna know that no one's gonna
know that unless you work with that.
Utilize knowledge of Agile and
work on projects and
test driven development cycles, develop
test plans and develop schedules for
achieving project objectives and
deliverables.
Formulate system scope and objectives
to create and modify application,
including all functional features,
analyze, design, develop, and implement.
Solutions and dashboards based upon
requirements and roadmaps develop,
update, technical documentation and
cuts off.
But what I've seen the biggest thing
is there's no impact on any of these,
it's not showing what is the benefit,
what happened?
There's a lot of stuff of like
a lot of technical things, but
what it's not saying is like
this is how it impacted, right?
When I said, hey, yo, I built a website
that raise $10,000 in 27 hours for
a fallen veteran.
There was the impact of that.
I built this thing, this is what
the impact of it was, all right?
So that's what you have to do,
the impact matters to leadership
to business people, right?
They want to know what is
the thing that did happen?
What's the social impact?
What's the business impact?
What was the educational impact to you?
What's professional impact for you?
You have to show not just what you did,
but also show the impact of it.
Laura, regulatory liaison,
June 2009 January 2013 authored
reply comments to regulators explaining
detailed data, trends changes and
policies implemented department
processes reduce response time.
Over 16% in the first year, that's good,
you are showing that
you understand data and
trends and
you're also showing the business impact.
So that's good, I'll give that an A.
Ross's US Census numerator,
learn to quickly connect with respondents,
dealt with disagreeable and hostile
situations calmly and professionally,
recorded and protected information
efficiently and accurately.
Okay, so cuz I'm a veteran,
I can definitely tell you this,
no one likes we're hostile in your resume.
[LAUGH] The easiest way to lighthouse
allies eyebrow goes up
is he's a hostile eye.
I use hostile and one of my first resumes
when I first came out of the military,
no callbacks,
I'm that walking meme of their life.
So why don't you have a lot of
things about your first job?
You'd be like,
you know what, I'm not gonna tell
you because I kind of need this job.
So that was me when I first came out.
So I wanna say drop hostile,
learn to quickly connect with respondents.
I will try to reword this an idea of like,
I can work well with others or
I can help people connect.
So I will say I learned to
connect with respondents.
And then I was able to,
I'm not gonna say dealt with disagreeable,
but it's not personal,
it doesn't sound empathic.
So I'm gonna say,
Able to work professionally
with people who might not have
agreed with me on things, right?
So it's something like that,
I would workshop that more.
But I'll make that nicer because you say
that isn't like okay, that's probably,
recorded and protected information
officially accurately.
So you're right there,
you're trying to showcase a little
bit of attention to detail.
You need to focus on making
this more of a story, one, and
two, I would like to record it and
protected information efficiently and
accurately a little more.
I just feel like I could just all this
whole thing could be said better and how
do I feel like you could really workshop
this in a manner that makes it friendlier.
Like I see what you're saying but
it comes off as a little abrupt, so
we have to soften that up.
We would be like, okay,
as a census enumerator,
I focus on connecting with clients
to get the information and
secure it in a efficient manner.
Yeah, so as a census enumerator
I connected with respondents and
securely and efficiently,
securely, efficiently and
accurately received
the information needed.
Oftentimes I worked through
disagreements in order
to have a positive outcome,
something like that.
And I'm really up here working hard, look.
[LAUGH] Okay, just do the whole
giggity thing as well as realize.
[LAUGH] So let's look at,
Okay, I have a mobile developer,
I made a engaging UI heavy movie,
discovery app or
a start up on the iOS platform,
the moon current application,
swift UI, react and React Native.
You're missing the impact on that one,
so it was UI heavy,
so what was the purpose one as it
is the perf good is the light.
What are you trying to tell me?
What did you do?
Well, are you saying
that the impact is that
you learn how to do something
because you made a UI heavy?
Excuse me meta UI heavy app, so now
because of that you're able to move on to
React Native, like I think that needs
to be clarified a little bit more.
But other than that, that's good.
All right, so
we got a Microsoft in here, okay?
As a Microsoft we're producer contractor
on the products office comm team I
set up OneNote documentation for
accessibility to bring consistent
accessibility fixes across the website,
using, JavaScript, HTML, CSS.
And this increase in happiness and
disabled users and
cut down on arguments among
developers about the correct fixes.
Yeah, anybody who can keep our developers
from arguing over tech stuff is a hero.
So we salute you cuz that's all we do.
We love to argue about it every weekend we
want to get a fight over tabs or spaces,
or tabs or spaces or semi colons or none,
can't maximum windows, it's nothing.
But yeah all right, Matt,
I'll definitely, yeah,
that gets to pair so far or
many of you guys did pretty good.